*Installation of sugical volate protection:
Surge voltage protection:
Introduction:
                  Transient surge voltages arise as a result of Lightning discharge, switching operations in
electrical systems and electrostatic discharge. These surge voltages often destroy the
electronic equipment to a large extent.

PROTECTION OF SSDAC FROM SURGE VOLTAGES:
	In order to prevent surge voltages from destroying the equipment, all the input lines of
SSDACi.e. Power Supply (24V), Reset (48V) & both the Modem lines i.e. SSDACto SSDAC&
SSDACto reset box is to be routed through surge voltage protection devices for effectively
protecting the system.
	These devices (4 numbers) are mounted in a box and supplied along with the system. One number of SVPD box is to be installed at each location and wired to the SSDAC.
INSTALLATION PROCEDURE:-
The SSDAC consists of the following equipments: -
i. TX & Rx Coil Axle Detectors - 2.
ii. SSDAC Counting Unit - 2 .
iii. Vital Relay Box - 2 .
iv. Reset Box - 1 . (Common resetting) or 2 . (Independent resetting)
v. Surge Voltage Protection Device- 2.
DETAILS FOR FIXING OF AXLE DETECTORS
    i. The Axle detectors should be installed after Advance starter (LSS) signal post and Home(HS) signal post on UP and DN lines of Double line section for use in BPAC.
    ii. The Axle detectors should be installed after Advance Starter Signal (LSS) Post for UP& DN
Lines of Single Line Section for use in BPACs.
   iii. In main Lines, loop lines, yard area the Axle detectors can be fixed just after the starter
signal post of each line under monitoring of SSDAC.
  iv. The Axle detectors separation between two sets of different SSDACsystems should be at
least 2 meters away so as to avoid mutual interference.
 v. The detectors have to be fixed on the clear spacing between two sleepers.
  vi. It should be ensured that the rail is not badly worn out causing the wheel flanges to graze
over the fittings.
  vii. The design of the detector is suitable for 90R, 52Kg and 60Kg rails.
  viii. The transmitter and Receiver coils are provided with 24/0.2 shielded cables of 10m
lengths and have to be taken to location box directly without any loops.
  ix. Transmitter and Receiver cables should run separately at a minimum separation of 400mm
in different HDPEpipes. The cables have to be laid in the 40mm HDPEpipe for safety and
buried underground below ballast at the depth of approx. 0.3mts.
FIXING OF AXLE DETECTORS (TRANSMITTER AND RECEIVER COIL):-
   i. The Axle detectors are to be fixed on web of the rail at the drilled holes by means
of M12 bolts & nuts with spring washers and check nuts. (NOTE: the torque
wrench, specified in the checklist, should be used for tightening of nuts and bolts.)
  ii. M12 x 100mm - 3. bolts& nuts are used for fixing the axle detectors. 2nd nut is
with Nylon washer and is to be used on each bolt.
  iii. Transmitter coil assembly (21 KHz & 23 KHz) should be fixed on the outer side of
rail. The transmitter assembly should sit properly on the web of rail.
  iv. Receiver coil assembly (21 KHz & 23 KHz) should be fixed on the inner side of rail. The receiver assembly should be placed properly on the web of rail.
  v. It should be ensured that transmitter coil assembly and receiver coil assembly are
facing opposite to each other (21 KHzTXto 21 KHz Rx and 23 KHzTXto 23 KHz Rx)
on either side of rail with centre line of coils matching each other.
  vi. The TX coil cables 21 KHz & 23 KHz are taken together in one HDPE pipe to the
location Box. Similarly both 21 KHz & 23 KHz Rx coils are taken together but
separately from TX coil cables to the location box.
  vii. The 1st set of Transmitter and Receiver Coils is made of 21 KHz signal and 2nd set is made of 23 KHz signal at each Location.
NOTE: 
            Both at the Entry & Exit of the section, the axle detectors should be fixed on same
rail i.e. either on left side or on right side rail of the track. This should not be
installed with 1st set on left rail and 2nd set on right rail of the track at Entry & Exit
of the section. This is for correct installation of axle detector